ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

[EPA-HQ-OPPT-2015-0744; FRL-12649-01-OCSPP]

Agency Information Collection Activities; Proposed Renewal Collection and Request for Comment; Notification of Substantial Risk of Injury to Health and the Environment Under TSCA Section 8(e)

AGENCY:

Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

ACTION:

Notice.

SUMMARY:

In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA), this document announces the availability of and solicits public comment on the following Information Collection Request (ICR) that EPA is planning to submit to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB): “Notification of Substantial Risk of Injury to Health and the Environment under TSCA Section 8(e)” (EPA ICR No. 0794.18 and OMB Control No. 2070-0046). This ICR represents a renewal of an existing ICR that is currently approved through April 30, 2026. Before submitting the ICR to OMB for review and approval under the PRA, EPA is soliciting comments on specific aspects of the information collection that is summarized in this document. The ICR and accompanying material are available in the docket for public review and comment.

DATES:

Comments must be received on or before September 2, 2025.

ADDRESSES:

Submit your comments, identified by docket identification (ID) number Docket ID No. EPA-HQ-OPPT-2015-0744, online at

https://www.regulations.gov.

Follow the online instructions for submitting comments. Do not submit electronically any information you consider to be Confidential Business Information (CBI) or other information whose disclosure is restricted by statute. Additional instructions on commenting or visiting the docket, along with more information about dockets generally, is available at

https://www.epa.gov/dockets.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:

Katherine Sleasman, Office of Program Support (Mail Code 7602M), Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention, Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460-0001; telephone number: (202) 566-1204; email address:

Sleasman.Katherine@epa.gov.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

I. What information is EPA particularly interested in?

Pursuant to PRA section 3506(c)(2)(A) (44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(A)), EPA specifically solicits comments and information to enable it to:

1. Evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the Agency, including whether the information will have practical utility.

2. Evaluate the accuracy of the Agency's estimates of the burden of the proposed collection of information, including the validity of the methodology and assumptions used.

3. Enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected.

4. Minimize the burden of the collection of information on those who are to respond, including through the use of appropriate automated electronic, mechanical, or other technological collection techniques or other forms of information technology,

e.g.,

permitting electronic submission of responses. In particular, EPA is requesting comments from very small businesses (those that employ less than 25) on examples of specific additional efforts that EPA could make to reduce the paperwork burden for very small businesses affected by this collection.

II. What information collection activity or ICR does this action apply to?

Title:

Notification of Substantial Risk of Injury to Health and the Environment under TSCA Section 8(e).

EPA ICR No.:

0794.18.

OMB Control No.:

2070-0046.

ICR Status:

This ICR is currently approved through April 30, 2025. Under the PRA, an agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information, unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number. The OMB control numbers for EPA's regulations in title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), after appearing in the

Federal Register

when approved, are displayed either by publication in the

Federal Register

or by other appropriate means, such as on the related collection instrument or form, if applicable. The display of OMB control numbers for certain EPA regulations is consolidated in 40 CFR part 9.

Abstract:

Section 8(e) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) states, “any person who manufactures, [imports] processes, or distributes in commerce a chemical substance or mixture and who obtains information which reasonably supports the conclusion that such substance or mixture presents a substantial risk of injury to health or the environment shall immediately inform the [EPA] Administrator of such information unless such person has actual knowledge that the Administrator has been adequately informed of such information.” (15 U.S.C. 2607(e)).

EPA receives and screens TSCA section 8(e) submissions covering a large number of chemical substances and mixtures on a wide range of chemical toxicity/exposure information. Although EPA's receipt of TSCA section 8(e) information does not necessarily trigger immediate regulatory action under TSCA or other authorities administered by EPA, all section 8(e) submissions receive screening level evaluations by EPA's Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT) to identify priorities for further Agency action and appropriate referrals to other programs.

TSCA Section 8(e) data on newly discovered chemical hazards/risks is available via EPA's ChemView

https://chemview.epa.gov/chemview.

There is also public outreach and information access to section 8(e) data through the TSCA Public Docket.

In addition, EPA is offering an electronic reporting option for use both by those who are required to submit a notification of substantial risk under section 8(e) and by those who wish voluntarily to submit “For Your Information” (FYI) notices by registering and submitting information electronically using the Agency's Central Data Exchange (CDX), as described below.

The ICR, which is available in the docket along with other related materials, provides a detailed explanation of the collection activities and the burden estimate that is only briefly summarized here:

Respondents/affected entities:

Entities potentially affected by this ICR include North American Industrial Classification System (NAICS) Codes 325—Chemicals and Allied Products Manufacturers and 32411- Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing.

Respondent's obligation to respond:

Mandatory, as per 15 U.S.C. 2607(e).

Estimated number of potential respondents:

557.

Frequency of response:

On occasion.

Total estimated average number of responses for each respondent:

42.

Total estimated burden:

hours 27,883 (per year). Burden is defined at 5 CFR 1320.3(b).

Total estimated costs:

$ 2,829,860 (per year), includes $0 annualized capital investment or maintenance and operational costs.

III. Are there changes in the estimates from the last approval?

There is an increase in industry reporting burden of 10,248 hours from that currently in the OMB inventory (from 17,635 to 27,883 hours). This reflects an overall increase in the number of section 8(e) submissions, which increased from 343 to 552. This change is an adjustment.

IV. What is the next step in the process for this ICR?

EPA will consider the comments received and amend the ICR as appropriate. The final ICR package will then be submitted to OMB for review and approval pursuant to 5 CFR 1320.12. EPA will issue another

Federal Register

document pursuant to 5 CFR 1320.5(a)(1)(iv) to announce the submission of the ICR to OMB and the opportunity to submit additional comments to OMB. If you have any questions about this ICR or the approval process, please contact the person listed under

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT

.

Authority:

44 U.S.C. 3501

et seq.

Dated: June 27, 2025.

Nancy B. Beck,

Principal Deputy Assistant Administrator, Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention.

[FR Doc. 2025-12325 Filed 7-1-25; 8:45 am]

BILLING CODE 6560-50-P